---
published: true
title: Anecdotal and Biased Advice for purchasing a new camera in May 2024
layout: post
tags: cameras rant
category: techstuff
author: Sudarshan Kadam
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Here are some points to consider while deciding on a camera system:
1. Budget. Not just first budget for buying the camera. Future budget for buying more lenses. Eventually when you want to buy more lenses(and you will, there no way around it), it should kinda fit in the budget. If you spent $2400 to get camera+1 lens, do you think you will spend more anytime soon? 
Full Frame lenses are generally expensive no matter which brand. Which brings me to second point:

2. APS-C vs Full Frame camera: Research this properly. APS-C means the sensor is smaller than full frame sensor. Like your current camera or my sony camera. You do not need a full frame camera unless you are going to be a professional photographer doing model photoshoots or events like weddings. People like to say FULL FRAME IS BEST. It's like saying get Mercedes instead of Accord because it's the best. 
It's universally agreed that you should invest in lenses more than the camera body.

  I suggest you go with APS-C camera as they are always lighter, lenses are WAY CHEAPER. Like less than half the price or even more sometimes. 
  See the photos I got with $499 lens even when they turned off lights for meditation. An equivalent lens of that one costs $999 for Nikon full frame and $899 for Sony Full frame. 
  Another example, I have Sigma 30mm F1.4 lens that cost $264, weight 265grams. Equivalent full frame lens Sigma 50mm F1.4 $839.00, weight 660grams. It gets heavier as you go bigger. 
  Full frame lenses are huge and heavy. APS-C lenses are very light (mostly).

3. Compatibility with peers. This one is very subjective. But just think about it a moment. You and Naveen both brought cameras to the event and you could have used each other's lenses as both had Canon. Now recently, it has become Sony. Everywhere I got, I see people with Sony cameras. Nikon is awesome, no doubt, but you might be the only one around with one, especially at an event like ours. But if you don't care about this part that much then just use first two points to decide. They apply to all brands equally.

Quality wise, there are no distinction between Sony, Canon, Nikon, Panasonic, Fujifilm. It's the other features that take the cake.  
Sony == Best autofocus in the industry, packed with video features, most commonly used and huge variety of lenses. Budget friendly for APS-C.  
Nikon == Jack of all trades overall, good at everything. Best at photography (latest models Z series), works with older lenses (I think). Not budget friendly.  
Canon == New RF series got some good cameras, reliable image quality, mixed feedback from people about usability and minor issues. Not budget friendly.  
Fuji == Niche lens market. Different than all others in the way it works. Photographers love this system. Built in film simulations like no other brand has. Expensive future lenses.  
Panasonic == best Video features even better than Sony. Newer models have overall good everything. L mount lenses are not exactly cheap. Older panasonic small sensor cameras will get phased out so don't invest in that.  

##Advice on taking advice:

Remember that everyone is going to be biased.
People who have not actually used the new mirrorless cameras, will keep claiming the old mantra of Full Frame, Canon Color Science and other BS that is no longer true.
People like me would want everyone to have what they have. :) But I tried to be as unbiased as possible.

##My Experience:

I started with Canon (used for 5 years), then swithced to panasonic(used for 5 years) and then switched to Sony 3 years ago. Of all 3, I like Sony the most because of how much value for money it has been. Versatile. Pro level videos, affordable lenses, ease of use for vintage lenses, overall quality of image. Also Sony tends to give you same sensor in even the cheapest of the cameras. For example Sony ZV-E10 is $798.00 with lens and has same sensor as my camera(A6600 $1350), has same image quality and can use all the same lenses (even the full frame professional lenses).  See comparison below:
https://www.rtings.com/camera/tools/compare/sony-a6600-vs-sony-zv-e10/8716/26615?usage=27561&threshold=0.10

##Final word: 

if you want to try your hand on new gen cameras without serious investment: Sony zv-e10
if you want to get serious and have money to spare: Sony A6700 OR Nikon equivalent from Z series (not sure about models). Or Fuji XT series.
if you want to be PRO and make moeny with your camera and have lots of money: Sony Full Frame (A7 IV, A7-c ii) or Nikon Full Frame. I still prefer Sony over Nikon as you can't beat the availibility of used lens market and ability to sell your current camera for good price when you want to upgrade.

